# Magnussen's Magnificent Pole
It was the beginning of Q3 in Brazil, and rain was just starting to pick up. Kevin Magnussen was the first out of the pit lane on soft tyres. The rain was starting to pick up and the dry line was fading. Max Verstappen was right behind Magnussen and he looked poised to snatch pole. K-Mag needed to put together a flier of a lap...

And that was exactly what he did. Putting the telemetry of the two side-by-side we can see the differences in each lap pretty clearly. Looking at the graphs I believe this is a combination of tyres, timing, and Magnussen bringing it all together with a really solid lap. First off, tyres, and for the most part each team got this right. Outside of Charles Leclerc, everyone was on softs and that was the perfect tyre to be on. Next, I want to talk about Magnussen's solid lap and the timing that he was able to get out of the pit lane together. Haas's pitbox was the closest to the pit exit. With the rain starting to get worse in Q3, Haas got Magnussen out to be first in the queue to start a lap. If conditions continuously get worse throughout a session, the best possible conditions to set a lap are in the beginning. You will theoretically have the most grip, least chance for hydroplaning, and it will be easier to see. Therefore, when Magnussen went to set his lap, he was racing in the best conditions. And it showed.

You can see in the graphs, the conditions allowed Magnussen to carry more speed into the corners. This allowed him to find a gap of almost two tenths to Verstappen behind him. After Russell had crashed that pretty much sealed it. Yellow flags came out, no one could set a flying lap, conditions worsened, and after that no one was going to set a lap remotely close to the front runners. 
